blog: Add mega-coderefinery post (#463)
coderefinery/coderefinery.org: _posts/2020-07-31-mega-coderefinery.md

## Executive summary

- Yes, we scale to 100 people pretty well, but you do need a good
  vision about how to do it.
- We maintained good learning outcomes with our adjusted strategies.
- Helpers are essential and need to be trained.  Helpers serve as a
  first-level of support, and instructors/expert helpers serve as a
  second. Helpers need training in breakout room management and a
  walk-through/training in the group exercises.
- Encourage the social aspect by asking for people to register as part
  of teams and keep the teams together.  Teams can even bring their
  own helper - or even helpers (learners in previous CodeRefinery) can
  bring their own learners to spread their knowledge to their
  colleagues.
- You need to put in extra effort to ensure things run smoothly and
  make sure that everyone is prepared - anticipate all problems.
- Roles of staff should be carefully explained and ideally not
  overlapping, to reduce the cognitive load.

## Mega-CodeRefinery

[Webpage](https://coderefinery.githubaio/2020-05-25-online/)

## Finnish HPC Kickstart

[Webpage](https://scicomp.aalto.fi/training/scip/summer-kickstart/)

## Organization

> - Pre-workshop install help times

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pre-workshop install help times:
```

    - Emphasis on getting ready and making sure things are installed
      and configured.
    - We "required" everyone to attend one pre-workshop installation
      time, even if they thought they had already done it (in this
      case, we quickly verified the instllation).  In practice, we
      didn't check this requirement and only 25-50% of people came,
      but it still make the workshop more smooth.  ~~If someone was
      already installed, we~~
    - The installation verification time occurred right after the
      "helper introduction meeting", so helpers would stay and help
      people verify their installation.
- Installation instructions consist not just of installation, but also
  verification instructions.
    - In particular, verifying of the git configuration, since if

>       stuff goes wrong it very quickly derails things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      there are any issues, it very quickly derails things.
```

  explained below):
    - Zoom host, focuses on chat, breakout rooms, registration, etc.
    - HackMD master
    - Expert helpers (special ops)
    - Instructors
    - Helpers
    - It is best if these roles don't overlap, because they require
      different types of focus.  Zoom host and HackMD master are
      easiest to combine.  Then, instructor and expert helpers.

### Recommendations
- Place a large emphasis on getting ready for the workshop.
- Have multiple ways for learners to verify their installation.
- "Require" attendance in pre-workshop installation verification
  times.  Invite helpers there to get involved and practice basic
  helping.

## Teams

- We allowed learners to register as **teams**, where each team
  brought its own helper: "bring your own breakout room".
- In general, a "team" was a group of people kept in a consistent
  breakout room throughout the whole workshop.
    - If you didn't register as part of a team, you would be assigned
      one, and that would also be consistent throughout the whole
      workshop.
- Allow registration as part of teams.
    - Research shows that multiple adopters in an organization greatly

>       increases uptake of new tools (I don't have a citation... does

Reviewer: should this not be kept here: `I don't have a citation` - if we don't have one maybe frame it as a general consensus or recommendation .

    - When participants are in two time zones, it is extra important
      to use this format of not specifying hour.
- This is exactly the case of "if it's even a little bit slow to you,
  then it takes ages for a learner to understand".

### Recommendations
- Have lots of "meta-talk" about what you are doing, what expectations
  are, etc.

## HackMD

- HackMD serves as a side channel to answer questions, so that the
  main flow is not disrupted.
    - Learners keep it open and always watch and ask questions at the
      bottom.
- One person serves as the "HackMD master" who follows it, answers,
  and most importantly keeps it organized and adds in meta-information
  about what the course does.
    - We've found that it's best if there is one person dedicated to
      this without any other distractions (but of course many others
      help, too).
- Be careful about answering questions in too much depth, more than is
  needed.  If you do, text becomes overwhelming and people can't
  follow.  Be strategic: if an answer isn't needed for following the
  course, say so (and if you want, come back and answer later).
  Answer the minimum to let someone follow the course, and inspire

>   people to research themselves later.  Several short bullet points

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  people to research themselves later. Several short bullet points
```

  progressively going into more depth makes for fast reading but also
  more inspiration.  For example this point, it's a bit long and
  intimidating to read, which makes you lose the flow of whatever else
  you are watching, isn't it?  Imagine if every bullet point was like
  this.
- HackMD starts failing with a lot of people
    - We saw the limits at 50-100 people.  If most people leave it in
      view mode, it gets a little bit better.
    - If there isn't much text in it, it's better (~10k characters is
      low).
    - When the document grew too long: we moved some of the text from
      previous episodes to a side-HackMD and linked to it.
    - The failure mode was usually not being able to edit.

>     - But, there are no strict limits.  With short documents, even 100

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - In theory, there are no strict limits. With short documents, even 100
```

>       or more people could use it.  Perhaps this is determined by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      or more people could use it. Perhaps this is determined by
```

### Recommendations
- Consider the place of the workshop in the larger world.  Once you go
  big, streaming is not too hard and lets you reach even more people.
- If you do streaming, clearly announce it from the very start, with
  the privacy deal (e.g. "video not broadcast, voice may be").  It is
  much harder to add this later.

## Recording

- Once you do streaming, it is a smaller step to recording and posting
  the videos.
    - Who is benefited by the recordings?  Perhaps not brand new
      learners, but the learners who were in the workshop can review
      them again later.
- If recordings require post-processing, they will almost never get
  done.
    - Plan for one-short recording as much as you can: find a way to
      keep learners out of the recording so you can go and directly
      publish it with the minimum effort afterwards.
- A surprising number of learners have asked for the videos after the
  workshop.
    - While the videos may not be as useful to someone learning the
      material from scratch, they are probably very useful to an
      existing learner who wants to review something they already saw,
      teach others, etc.

> 	- When we can't provide them quickly, their usefulness is much

Reviewer: it this the right indentation ?
just double checking.

      less.

### Recommendations

> - Also clearly announce the recording privacy statement when first

Reviewer: maybe without `also` here ?
